Today I learned about convolutions.

What puzzle is this part of?
It's part of a lot of signal processing techniques.

What's the purpose of this?
It is a compact way of expressing the filtering of a discrete signal.                  

How can this be viewed as an organism?
The signal could be viewed as living through various processing stages in a system, changing dynamically.                          

How would this be taught?
The computational part is pretty straight-forward, perhaps with some more practical examples like the BOLD response.

How would you model this?
As an operator which can be applied to two signals, resulting in a third containing a combination of the two.

Are there other names for this?
It's related to correlation, but it's the inverse. Sometimes pattern-matching.

How might this be used in new areas?
Well, it's clearly used a lot in machine learning. Early face recognition, for instance. Perhaps in recognizing fingerprints.

What opportunities does this offer?
The opportunity to compactly express filtering.

How would you represent this visually?
The convolution layer is often represented visually, with a pyramid-like cone thingy.  

What is the underlying mental model?
A special way of composing two functions, across time.

How can this be viewed from a mathematics perspective?
That's pretty straight-forward, as an operator which related two functions.

How can this be leveraged?
Pattern-matching, as part of a neural network, perhaps.

What are some possible interpretations of this?
A combination of two functions but not in the sense of a composition. As a filter. As a pattern matcher. Etc.

How would you communicate this as an experience?
Sweat levels could be probably modeled as a convolution of calories being burned.

How might this apply to new domains?
Outside computer science? Hm, hard to imagine. Wonder if it has uses in language, it probably has. 

What's the structure of this?
Two functions or signals being piped through this process, resulting in another one.